# Discordianism

Discordianism According to Malaclypse (The Younger)  
being subject to change without notice  

To be a member of the Discordian Society one must exhibit some aspect of the following: a) profound enlightenement or interest in Discordianism as a philosophical-religious approach to life, b) a manifestation of The Principle of Discord (Eristic Principle), c) a manifestation of The Principle of Superficial Order Resting on a Solid Foundation of Chaos (Eristeque Principle). Non-Discordians are simply a mixture of the two principles and 1) simply refuse to acknowledge it or 2) do not posses a Divine Degree of either. Any person who fits the definition of a Discordian is a Discordian and belongs to the Discordian Society whether they like it or not and therefore falls into some or all of the following classifications.

THE ERISIAN MOVEMENT is the Enlightened Understanding Esoteric branch of the DS and has three divisions. The first is the Legion of Dynamic Discord (Chaos Corps (Corpse)), which represents the bulk of the religious fold, and is under the authority of the Eristocrasy (The House of the Apostles of Eris). A person becomes an Enlightened Discordian by joining The Legion of Dynamic Discord as a Legionnaire, thereby gaining the authority to adopt the title of Erisian Discordian, adopt a Sacred Name, and go about spreading Words of Wisdom as they are released from the Compliers of Truth-Esoteric (Erisoteric). Once a Legionnaire an individual has taken the fundamental step and found favor with Our Lady of Discord. A Legionnaire may progress further and become a Disciple of Eris by engaging is some form of Erisian Activity and acquire Enumerable Sacred Titles. Converting five others to Discordianism grants the title of "Evangelist", giving speeches before Great Groups of People grants "Orator", etc. A regular Legionnaire is not responsible to a DOE, but DOEhood is certainly of higher status.

The House of the Apostles of Eris, as the elite of the hierarchy, is composed of Episkoposes (Eristocrats). An Episkopos has authority over The LODD but not over other Episkoposes, unless he/she/it is a High Priest. An High Priest possesses authority over the members (be they Legionnaire, DOE, or Episkopos) in all matters pertaining to their particular sect. One gains the rank of High Priest when they posses sufficient understanding of the Erisian Mysteries to be able to guess how they became a High Priest (which is the only secret in the DS (do not attempt to divine any other secrets (there are none))). The Golden Apple Corps (Keepers of the Sacred Chao) has absolute authority but in general will not overrule an Episkopos, for an Episokopos becomes such because TGAC has faith in his/her/it's discretion. To acquire the rank of KSC and join TGAC an individual must be one of the two founders of the DS. The Compilers of Truth-Esoteric (Erisoteric) is the creative branch of THAE. One gains membership by authoring Holy Works, which may include but are not limited to Erisian Words of Wisdom. Every member of THAE is an Episkopos, but an Episkopos may also be a KSC, a High Priest, and/or a Compiler of Truth-Esoteric (Erisoteric). The final component of THAE is closed to Legionnaires and Episkoposes and is composed of The Five Apostles, Saints, and Like Personages. Numbered among The Five Apostles is Confusium, Krishna Argumentaba, Frere Jaques Discordot (Jean the Eristentionalist), Eristotle, and Malaclypse (The Elder). (Controvite almost made it, but got scrounged out.) For more information on the Apostles see Book 17 of The Honest Book of Truth (Lord Omar Khayyam Ravenhurst's Holy Work). Currently THAE recognizes three saints: St. Bokonon, St. Yossarien, and St. Quixote. THAE recognizes no Like Personages at this time (and has no idea what a "Like Personages" might be).

The Administry is concerned with the administrative functions of the DS and is divided into the following divisions. The Erisian Archives collects and stores all records. The Bureau of Symbols renders, distributes, and disseminates all documents and paraphernalia. The Secretatriat composes, transmits, and collects. Lastly is The Bureau of Projects, which heads project development and execution. Currently projects include the University of Discordia and the Membership Campaign. A member of the Administry is referred to as a Keeper (not to be confused with the KSC) and keeps whatever it is that needs keeping. Only the Episkoposes may be appointed as a Keeper, but a Legionnaire may assist a Keeper and advance to DOE with a title of the form "Grand...to the..." (which is a significant jump in status).

THE ERISTIC MOVEMENT refers to Discordians that are not enlightened but manifest the Principle of Discord. An individual who is exactly 99 and 11/25ths percent Pure Chaos is an incarnation of Eris Herself (Avatar) and though they may lead a frustrated life on this Earth, they are of Divine Status in essence. Whole-hearted incarnations of Eris Herself are very few and very precious. To date there is only one known incarnation of Eris Herself, "The Prince of Dynamic Discord, Chaos Incarnate, Efficacious Paradox Con Carne, Our Eristic Avatar, Corporealeris, The Living One." He lies in Los Angeles, works for the Post Office, and is a graduate of the same college that belched out Richard Nixon. An individual who compiles Holy Works intuitively but has no awareness of Discordianism is a Compiler of Truth-Lay. Examples include Joseph Heller (Catch 22), Kurt Vonnegut (Cat's Cradle), Ray Bradbury (Fahrenheit 451), Cervantes (Don Quixote), and Lewis Carroll (all sorts of stuff).

THE ERISTESQUE MOVEMENT refers to Discordians that are not enlightened but manifest The Principle of Superficial Order Resting on a Solid Foundation of Chaos and is organized into the Orders of Eris. This includes The Knights of the Five Sided Temple (including The Communist Infiltrated Auxiliary of The Knights of the Five Sided Temple), composed of the bureaucrats and militarists of the world; Ichabod College, for those who have been exposed to Discordianism but don't understand it (flunked); The Defamation League-Underground, composed of the rabble-rousers, anarchists, assassins, and so on; Apocalyptic Prophets Local #666 is for Doom Prophets in general (there has been no Doom Prophet who has known what he was doing since Malaclypse (The Elder)); and lastly The Bowel Movement for those Discordians that want out. While most members of The Eristeque Movement consider themselves anti-discord or in the service of strict order it is common practice to quietly draft them into service, as we know better.